




<!--
 /\* Font Definitions \*/
 @font-face
 {font-family:Courier;
 panose-1:2 7 4 9 2 2 5 2 4 4;}
@font-face
 {font-family:"Tms Rmn";
 panose-1:2 2 6 3 4 5 5 2 3 4;}
@font-face
 {font-family:Helv;
 panose-1:2 11 6 4 2 2 2 3 2 4;}
@font-face
 {font-family:"Cambria Math";
 panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4;}
 /\* Style Definitions \*/
 p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal
 {margin-top:0cm;
 margin-right:0cm;
 margin-bottom:8.0pt;
 margin-left:0cm;
 line-height:107%;
 font-size:11.0pt;
 font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif;}
.MsoChpDefault
 {font-size:11.0pt;}
.MsoPapDefault
 {margin-bottom:8.0pt;
 line-height:107%;}
 /\* Page Definitions \*/
 @page WordSection1
 {size:612.0pt 792.0pt;
 margin:72.0pt 72.0pt 72.0pt 72.0pt;}
div.WordSection1
 {page:WordSection1;}
-->




 


**Function : AddIn**



**AddInShouldTerminate** **- Check for
termination condition.**


**----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**



**#include <addin.h>**



BOOL
LNPUBLIC **AddInShouldTerminate(**void**);**



**Description :**



AddInShouldTerminate
should be called by a Domino server add-in task when it specifically needs to
check for task termination requests from the Lotus Domino Server.  Such
requests are usually generated by the server administrator entering
"quit" or "tell <taskname> quit" at the Console. 
This function is only supported within the context of a server add-in.  

  

To allow your addin task to respond to the Server's orders in a timely manner,
this routine should be called during the operation of any of your functions
that  the Lotus Domino Server normally would regard as uninterruptable. 
Typical examples include: a function that imports thousands of notes into a
database, a function that makes extensive and extended use of another vendor's
APIs, and any other I/O bound activities that are discovered while fine-tuning
your application.  

  

AddInIdle performs this operation automatically, so this function is only
useful in loops that may take a long time to perform.  In addition, to ensure
that "tell <taskname> quit" is processed properly and that a
console operator does not have to wait for an extended period for a task to
terminate, any other "delay" or "sleep" functions should
limit delays to 1 to 5 seconds.  Developers of server add-ins are responsible
for checking the server status every 5 seconds to see if it is time to quit for
every add-in. Using a single add-in task to do the checking and passing that
info along to other processes is not sufficient as some process aren't
responding to requests to dump memory or to terminate.


 


**Parameters :**




Output :  

(routine)  -  TRUE if the addin should terminate, FALSE if not.  

  

  




 **Sample Usage :**


  

               /\* There might be serveral minutes worth of import    \*/  

               /\* activity initiated here and AddInShould Terminate()\*/  

               /\* calls could be blended in amoung buffered I/O calls\*/  

  

                if(AddInShouldTerminate())  

                    break;  

  




 **See Also :**


**[AddInIdle](AddInIdle.md)**



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 





