




<!--
 /\* Font Definitions \*/
 @font-face
 {font-family:Courier;
 panose-1:2 7 4 9 2 2 5 2 4 4;}
@font-face
 {font-family:"Tms Rmn";
 panose-1:2 2 6 3 4 5 5 2 3 4;}
@font-face
 {font-family:Helv;
 panose-1:2 11 6 4 2 2 2 3 2 4;}
@font-face
 {font-family:"Cambria Math";
 panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4;}
 /\* Style Definitions \*/
 p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal
 {margin-top:0cm;
 margin-right:0cm;
 margin-bottom:8.0pt;
 margin-left:0cm;
 line-height:107%;
 font-size:11.0pt;
 font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif;}
.MsoChpDefault
 {font-size:11.0pt;}
.MsoPapDefault
 {margin-bottom:8.0pt;
 line-height:107%;}
 /\* Page Definitions \*/
 @page WordSection1
 {size:612.0pt 792.0pt;
 margin:72.0pt 72.0pt 72.0pt 72.0pt;}
div.WordSection1
 {page:WordSection1;}
-->




 


**Data Type : Composite Data; Field;
Rich Text**



**CDFIELD** **-** Defines the
attributes of a field in a form.


**----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**



**#include
<editods.h>**



**Definition :**



typedef struct {  

   WSIG Header;  

   WORD Flags;           /\* Field Flags (see Fxxx) \*/  

   WORD DataType;        /\* Alleged NSF Data Type \*/  

   WORD ListDelim;       /\* List Delimiters (LDELIM\_xxx and


                           
LDDELIM\_xxx) \*/  

   NFMT NumberFormat;    /\* Number format, if applicable \*/       

   TFMT TimeFormat;      /\* Time format, if applicable \*/  

   FONTID FontID;        /\* displayed font \*/  

   WORD DVLength;        /\* Default Value Formula \*/  

   WORD ITLength;        /\* Input Translation Formula \*/  

   WORD TabOrder;        /\* Order in tabbing sequence \*/  

   WORD IVLength;        /\* Input Validity Check Formula \*/  

   WORD NameLength;      /\* NSF Item Name \*/  

   WORD DescLength;      /\* Description of the item \*/  

   WORD TextValueLength; /\* (Text List) List of valid text


                           
values \*/  

/\* Now comes the variable part of the struct... \*/  

} CDFIELD;


 


**Description :**



This defines
the structure of a CDFIELD record in the $Body item of a form note.  Each
CDFIELD record  defines the attributes of one field in the form.  

  

Each form note contains a $Body field. The $Body field is of type TYPE\_COMPOSITE. 
For each field in the form, there is one CDFIELD record in the $Body field of
the form note.   

  

Header:                  Defines this composite data item as a CDFIELD item.  

Flags:                      Defines some field attributes (see Fxxx).  

DataType              Defines the datatype of the field being defined (see
FIELD\_TYPE\_xxx).  

ListDelim                Defines the delimiters used to separate multi-values
in a field. See LDELIM\_xxx, LDDELIM\_xxx.  

NumberFormat    If this is a number field, defines the number format.  See
NFMT.  

TimeFormat          If this is a timedate field, defines the time format. See
TFMT.  

FontID                      Defines the font to be used in this field.  See
FONTID.  

DVLength               Length of this field's compiled Default Value formula.  

ITLength                 Length of this field's compiled Input Translation
formula.      

TabOrder               Order in tabbing sequence.  

IVLength                 Length of this field's compiled Input Validity Check
formula.  

NameLength         Length of the name of this field.  

DescLength           Length of the description of this field.  

TextValueLength  If this field is a keyword field, the length of the Text\_List
containing the acceptable values for this keyword field.  

  

The above items are then followed by a series of zero or more packed strings,
corresponding to the "length" parameters listed above. These packed
strings must appear in the same order as the "length" parameters  

  

If the field defined by a CDFIELD record is a keyword field, and the list of
keywords is generated by a formula, then the ListEntries member of the
Text\_List datatype should be set to zero, and the formula will immediately
follow the  LIST header of the Text\_List.  

  

Since the $Body field has type TYPE\_COMPOSITE, API programs that run on
non-Intel architecture platforms must perform host/canonical conversion on
CDFIELD records when accessing the $Body field of a form note.


  

Additional field information specific to Release 4 of Notes may be present, in
the form of a CDEXTFIELD record.  Please refer to that entry for more
information. Additional field information specific to Release 5 of Domino may
be present, in the form of a CDEXT2FIELD record.  Please refer to that entry
for more information.


 **See Also :**


**[CDEXT2FIELD](notes:///8525872100478C66/61FD4E9848264AD28525620B006BA8BD/6807B7F2AFEC3988482573FB00322DA5)**


**[CDEXTFIELD](CDEXTFIELD.md)**


**[NSFItemAppend](NSFItemAppend.md)**


**[ODSReadMemory](ODSReadMemory.md)**


**[ODSWriteMemory](ODSWriteMemory.md)**



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 





