##### Data Type : Composite Data
##### CDFIELD - Defines the attributes of a field in a form.
---
##### #include <editods.h>
**Description :**
This defines the structure of a CDFIELD record in the $Body item of a form 
note.  Each CDFIELD record  defines the attributes of one field in the form.

Each form note contains a $Body field. The $Body field is of type 
TYPE_COMPOSITE.  For each field in the form, there is one CDFIELD record in the 
$Body field of the form note. 

Header:                  Defines this composite data item as a CDFIELD item.
Flags:                      Defines some field attributes (see Fxxx).
DataType              Defines the datatype of the field being defined (see 
FIELD_TYPE_xxx).
ListDelim                Defines the delimiters used to separate multi-values 
in a field. See LDELIM_xxx, LDDELIM_xxx.
NumberFormat    If this is a number field, defines the number format.  See NFMT.
TimeFormat          If this is a timedate field, defines the time format. See 
TFMT.
FontID                      Defines the font to be used in this field.  See 
FONTID.
DVLength               Length of this field's compiled Default Value formula.
ITLength                 Length of this field's compiled Input Translation 
formula.    
TabOrder            Order in tabbing sequence.
IVLength                 Length of this field's compiled Input Validity Check 
formula.
NameLength         Length of the name of this field.
DescLength           Length of the description of this field.
TextValueLength  If this field is a keyword field, the length of the Text_List 
containing the acceptable values for this keyword field.

The above items are then followed by a series of zero or more packed strings, 
corresponding to the "length" parameters listed above. These packed strings 
must appear in the same order as the "length" parameters

If the field defined by a CDFIELD record is a keyword field, and the list of 
keywords is generated by a formula, then the ListEntries member of the 
Text_List datatype should be set to zero, and the formula will immediately 
follow the  LIST header of the Text_List.

Since the $Body field has type TYPE_COMPOSITE, API programs that run on 
non-Intel architecture platforms must perform host/canonical conversion on 
CDFIELD records when accessing the $Body field of a form note.

Additional field information specific to Release 4 of Notes may be present, in 
the form of a CDEXTFIELD record.  Please refer to that entry for more 
information. Additional field information specific to Release 5 of Domino may 
be present, in the form of a CDEXT2FIELD record.  Please refer to that entry 
for more information.
**See Also :**
[CDEXT2FIELD](D:/md_files/CDEXT2FIELD.md)
[CDEXTFIELD](D:/md_files/CDEXTFIELD.md)
[NSFItemAppend](D:/md_files/NSFItemAppend.md)
[ODSReadMemory](D:/md_files/ODSReadMemory.md)
[ODSWriteMemory](D:/md_files/ODSWriteMemory.md)
---
