##### Function : AddIn
##### AddInShouldTerminate - Check for termination condition.
---
##### #include <addin.h>
BOOL LNPUBLIC **AddInShouldTerminate(**
void);
**Description :**
AddInShouldTerminate should be called by a Domino server add-in task when it 
specifically needs to check for task termination requests from the Lotus Domino 
Server.  Such requests are usually generated by the server administrator 
entering "quit" or "tell <taskname> quit" at the Console.  This function is 
only supported within the context of a server add-in.

To allow your addin task to respond to the Server's orders in a timely manner, 
this routine should be called during the operation of any of your functions 
that  the Lotus Domino Server normally would regard as uninterruptable.  
Typical examples include: a function that imports thousands of notes into a 
database, a function that makes extensive and extended use of another vendor's 
APIs, and any other I/O bound activities that are discovered while fine-tuning 
your application.

AddInIdle performs this operation automatically, so this function is only 
useful in loops that may take a long time to perform.  In addition, to ensure 
that "tell <taskname> quit" is processed properly and that a console operator 
does not have to wait for an extended period for a task to terminate, any other 
"delay" or "sleep" functions should limit delays to 1 to 5 seconds.  Developers 
of server add-ins are responsible for checking the server status every 5 
seconds to see if it is time to quit for every add-in. Using a single add-in 
task to do the checking and passing that info along to other processes is not 
sufficient as some process aren't responding to requests to dump memory or to 
terminate.
**Parameters :**

Output :
(routine)  -  TRUE if the addin should terminate, FALSE if not.


**Sample Usage :**
```

               /* There might be serveral minutes worth of import    */
               /* activity initiated here and AddInShould Terminate()*/
               /* calls could be blended in amoung buffered I/O calls*/

                if(AddInShouldTerminate())
                    break;

```
**See Also :**
[AddInIdle](D:/md_files/AddInIdle.md)
---
