##### Data Type : Composite Data
##### CDFIELD - Defines the attributes of a field in a form.
---
```
#include <editods.h>
```

**Definition :**
```
typedef struct {
   WSIG Header;
   WORD Flags;           /* Field Flags (see Fxxx) */
   WORD DataType;        /* Alleged NSF Data Type */
   WORD ListDelim;       /* List Delimiters (LDELIM_xxx and
                            LDDELIM_xxx) */
   NFMT NumberFormat;    /* Number format, if applicable */ 
   TFMT TimeFormat;      /* Time format, if applicable */
   FONTID FontID;        /* displayed font */
   WORD DVLength;        /* Default Value Formula */
   WORD ITLength;        /* Input Translation Formula */
   WORD TabOrder;        /* Order in tabbing sequence */
   WORD IVLength;        /* Input Validity Check Formula */
   WORD NameLength;      /* NSF Item Name */
   WORD DescLength;      /* Description of the item */
   WORD TextValueLength; /* (Text List) List of valid text
                            values */
/* Now comes the variable part of the struct... */
} CDFIELD;
```

**Description :**

This defines the structure of a CDFIELD record in the $Body item of a form note.  Each CDFIELD record  defines the attributes of one field in the form.<br>
<br>
Each form note contains a $Body field. The $Body field is of type TYPE_COMPOSITE.  For each field in the form, there is one CDFIELD record in the $Body field of the form note. <br>
<br>
Header:                  Defines this composite data item as a CDFIELD item.<br>
Flags:                      Defines some field attributes (see Fxxx).<br>
DataType              Defines the datatype of the field being defined (see FIELD_TYPE_xxx).<br>
ListDelim                Defines the delimiters used to separate multi-values in a field. See LDELIM_xxx, LDDELIM_xxx.<br>
NumberFormat    If this is a number field, defines the number format.  See NFMT.<br>
TimeFormat          If this is a timedate field, defines the time format. See TFMT.<br>
FontID                      Defines the font to be used in this field.  See FONTID.<br>
DVLength               Length of this field's compiled Default Value formula.<br>
ITLength                 Length of this field's compiled Input Translation formula.    <br>
TabOrder	           Order in tabbing sequence.<br>
IVLength                 Length of this field's compiled Input Validity Check formula.<br>
NameLength         Length of the name of this field.<br>
DescLength           Length of the description of this field.<br>
TextValueLength  If this field is a keyword field, the length of the Text_List containing the acceptable values for this keyword field.<br>
<br>
The above items are then followed by a series of zero or more packed strings, corresponding to the &quot;length&quot; parameters listed above. These packed strings must appear in the same order as the &quot;length&quot; parameters<br>
<br>
If the field defined by a CDFIELD record is a keyword field, and the list of keywords is generated by a formula, then the ListEntries member of the Text_List datatype should be set to zero, and the formula will immediately follow the  LIST header of the Text_List.<br>
<br>
Since the $Body field has type TYPE_COMPOSITE, API programs that run on non-Intel architecture platforms must perform host/canonical conversion on CDFIELD records when accessing the $Body field of a form note.<br>
<br>
Additional field information specific to Release 4 of Notes may be present, in the form of a CDEXTFIELD record.  Please refer to that entry for more information. Additional field information specific to Release 5 of Domino may be present, in the form of a CDEXT2FIELD record.  Please refer to that entry for more information.


**See Also :**
[CDEXT2FIELD](/domino-c-api-docs/reference/Data/CDEXT2FIELD)
[CDEXTFIELD](/domino-c-api-docs/reference/Data/CDEXTFIELD)
[NSFItemAppend](/domino-c-api-docs/reference/Func/NSFItemAppend)
[ODSReadMemory](/domino-c-api-docs/reference/Func/ODSReadMemory)
[ODSWriteMemory](/domino-c-api-docs/reference/Func/ODSWriteMemory)
---
